Docs redesign (#1044)
modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol: docs/overview/index.mdx

---
title: Model Context Protocol
description: The open protocol that connects AI applications to the systems where context lives
mode: "custom"
---

<div className="landing-page">
  <div className="hero-section">
    <div className="hero-title">
      <img
        src="/logo/light.png"
        alt="Model Context Protocol"
        className="hero-logo"
      />
    </div>

    <div className="intro-video-section">
      <div className="intro-content">

>         <h2 className="intro-title">Give your AI applications access to your world</h2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <h2 className="intro-title">Connect your AI applications to the world</h2>
```
OK couldn't resist - did this one in the doc preview and I kind of like it better 😬  not a strong opinion but it's a little punchier I think

        <p className="intro-description">
          AI-powered tools are powerful, but they're often limited to the information you manually provide. MCP changes this by enabling AI applications to securely access the data and tools you already use.
        </p>
        <p className="intro-description">

>           Whether it's reading files from your computer, searching through an internal or external knowledge base, or updating tasks in an external project management tool, MCP provides a secure, standardized way to give AI systems the context they need to truly assist you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          Whether it's reading files from your computer, searching through an knowledge base, or updating tasks in an project management tool, MCP provides a secure, standardized, *simple* way to give AI systems the context they need.
```

        </p>
      </div>
      <div className="intro-video">
        <div className="video-placeholder">
          <div className="play-button">
            <div className="play-icon"></div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>

    <div className="how-section">
      <h2 className="section-title">How it works</h2>
      <div className="steps-container">
        <div className="step-item">
          <div className="step-content">
            <h3><span className="step-number">1</span> Choose MCP servers</h3>

>             <p>Pick from pre-built servers for popular tools like GitHub, Google Drive, or Slack. Combine multiple servers for complete workflows, or build your own for custom integrations.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <p>Pick from pre-built servers for popular tools like GitHub, Google Drive, Slack and hundreds of others. Combine multiple servers for complete workflows, or easily build your own for custom integrations.</p>
```

---
title: Model Context Protocol
description: The open protocol that connects AI applications to the systems where context lives
mode: "custom"
---

<div className="landing-page">
  <div className="hero-section">
    <div className="hero-title">
      <img
        src="/logo/light.png"
        alt="Model Context Protocol"
        className="hero-logo"
      />
    </div>

    <div className="intro-video-section">
      <div className="intro-content">

>         <h2 className="intro-title">Give your AI applications access to your world</h2>

Author: it was on purpose, you are connecting to "your" context, not the global world context

        </p>
      </div>
      <div className="intro-video">
        <div className="video-placeholder">
          <div className="play-button">
            <div className="play-icon"></div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>

    <div className="how-section">
      <h2 className="section-title">How it works</h2>
      <div className="steps-container">
        <div className="step-item">
          <div className="step-content">
            <h3><span className="step-number">1</span> Choose MCP servers</h3>
            <p>Pick from pre-built servers for popular tools like GitHub, Google Drive, or Slack. Combine multiple servers for complete workflows, or build your own for custom integrations.</p>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div className="step-connector"></div>
        <div className="step-item">
          <div className="step-content">
            <h3><span className="step-number">2</span> Connect your AI application</h3>

>             <p>Configure your AI application (like Claude, VS Code, or Claude Code) to connect to your MCP servers. The application can now see available tools and resources from all connected servers.</p>

Reviewer 2: "(like Claude, VS Code, or Claude Code)" --> how about chatgpt instead of claude code?

>             <p>Configure your AI application (like Claude, VS Code, or Claude Code) to connect to your MCP servers. The application can now see available tools and resources from all connected servers.</p>

Reviewer 2: "(like Claude, VS Code, or Claude Code)" --> how about chatgpt instead of claude code?

        </div>
        <div className="step-connector"></div>
        <div className="step-item">
          <div className="step-content">
            <h3><span className="step-number">3</span> Work with context</h3>
            <p>Your AI-powered application can now access real data, execute actions, and provide more helpful responses based on your actual context.</p>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>

    <div className="ecosystem-section">
      <h2 className="section-title">Join a growing ecosystem</h2>
      <div className="stats-container">
        <div className="stats-grid">
          <div className="stat-card">
            <div className="stat-number">9</div>
            <div className="stat-label">Official SDKs</div>
          </div>
          <div className="stat-card">
            <div className="stat-number">1000+</div>
            <div className="stat-label">Available Servers</div>
          </div>
          <div className="stat-card">
            <div className="stat-number">70+</div>
            <div className="stat-label">Compatible Clients</div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
      <p className="ecosystem-description">

>         Join the community shaping the future of AI integration.

Reviewer 2: This feels slightly redundant to the "Join a growing ecosystem" headline. Should we remove one or both of the taglines?
